New Year's Celebrations

	Human beings have created various occasions to engage social activities among each other.  Some of these include birthdays, weddings, anniversaries, and holidays.  One of the most popular holidays around the world is New Year.  Since the creation of the modern calendar celebrations took place to recognize this moment in time.  To many, New Year means various things, including a new chance at life, an end of bad year, and a time to make resolutions, and a point to review previous accomplishment.
	At the stroke of midnight an individual might have fixed emotions.  When looking back at the accomplishments of the previous year, one will whether be satisfied or disappointed with the results.  If satisfied, an individual should do his best to match and better the achievements of the past 365 days.  While looking at the other side - dissatisfaction - a person should forget his misfortunes and create success around them during the next 52 weeks.  Basically, no matter what the closing year had brought, the new one should top it.
	Resolutions are an important aspect of the holiday.  The reason for that is because they set the goals for the future year.  It is great to want to have a good year, but nothing gets done on its own; to achieve something an effort has to be put into it and that involves goals.  Such expectations help a person plan and realistically see life as it is, without impossible and ridiculous wishes.  
	If you look at what a year actually is - "A random point chosen in the earth's rotation by a man, who thought the planet was flat" - it seems as though it is a silly celebration.  However, as ludicrous as that might be, the event gives people closure and a new start.  It helps individuals find the reset button (if needed) in their lives.  So disregarding the truth about New Year, it is an important holiday because it is recognized by more people than any other in the world and brings different races, cultures and religions together.
