She's just 15 years old...but knew by the age of six that she was meant
to be on stage.
She's still in high school (and an honor student)...but already is a 
poised performer of exceptional ability and impressive experience. 
She's an outgoing, fun-loving teenager who started out "jumping on my 
bed and singing"...and now looks forward to the release of her 550 
Music debut album. 
She's Mandy Moore, and here are a few things you should know about her:
Amanda Leigh (Mandy) Moore was born April 10, 1984 in Nashua, New 
Hampshire but two months later moved with her family to Orlando, 
Florida. "O-Town! I really like living here, for the weather and for 
all the fun things there are to do." Mandy discovered her love of 
singing when she went to a summer musical theater camp when she was 
nine years old. "My parents thought it was just a phase I'd grow out 
of. But I stuck to it and begged them for acting lessons, for voice 
lessons." 
Where did she get her talent? Mandy isn't sure, but she has an idea. 
"It may have come from my grandmother. She was a dancer in the theater 
district of London, the West End." And in Orlando, Mandy soon became 
known as the "National Anthem Girl." "Yes, that's me! Some people know 
me that way because they've heard me sing 'The Star-Spangled Banner' 
for all the major sports teams and for Chris Evert's Pro-Celebrity 
Tennis Tournament." 
National commercials, TV pilots, and voice-overs have made Mandy a 
veteran of the recording studio. "When I first started recording, it 
was hard. My friends didn't understand why I couldn't hang out with 
them as much. I thought they'd talk behind my back or be jealous. But 
they've become really supportive, and I feel blessed by that." 
Mandy likes all kinds of music, especially the songs of other female 
singers like Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey, Lauryn Hill and Madonna. 
Her album reflects the diversity of her taste, from the plaintive 
ballad "Quit Breakin' My Heart" to the alluring "What You Want" to "So 
Real," which she describes as having "more of a rock edge, with more 
guitar - a Natalie Imbruglia type of song." 
Mandy lives in Orlando with her parents, Don and Stacy; her brothers 
Scott (18) and Kyle (13); and their three cats Milo, Zoe, and Chloe. 
Mandy's favorite book is A Land Remembered, her favorite movie is 
Beaches, her favorite actress is Gwyneth Paltrow and her favorite actor
is Ryan Philipe. In school, Mandy enjoys English and French...but math 
is a touchy subject! She's also learning to play guitar with an eye 
towards writing her own songs. 
Growing up too fast? Mandy Moore doesn't think so. "I don't feel I've 
missed out on anything about growing up because I feel so fortunate. 
There are so many kids that would love to be doing what I'm doing!"