Modern Talking - Biography

   
  
The Modern Talking project originated in the spring of 1984, when Dieter Bolen wrote "You’re my heart, you’re my soul." At first he could not find a suitable artist to complete the act. At the time, one of Dieter Bolen’s protege’s was German pop singer Thomas Anders. Persuaded by Bolen, Anders recorded the "You’re my heart, you’re my soul"—unaware of the impact it would have on the music industry.
A few weeks after it’s debut, "You’re my heart, you’re my soul" soared to the top of the German pop charts.
Sales exceeded 40000 singles daily. After their incredible success in Germany, Modern Talking released their hit in other European and Asian countries. They landed on charts in 17 countries, including Japan’s top 20 (the first German act ever!!!). 
A few months later, they followed up with their 2nd huge hit (" You can win if you want") which confirmed the success of the 1st single. "Cheri cheri lady" and "Brother Louie" became further chart toppers. After "Brother Louie" scored gold in Canada and England, Modern Talking seemed to have the US market wide open to them. But quarrels between Dieter Bolen and Thomas Anders (now) ex-wife led to the band’s split in 1987, after their 5th (!!!!!!!) number one hit ("Atlantis calling"), the 7th Modern Talking album and over 60 million albums sold. To date, Modern Talking is the most successful German band ever, and with 60 million albums sold in the top ten world wide. Only mega stars like Elton John, Elvis, the Rolling Stones or the Beatles outrank Modern Talking internationally.
After the break up, Thomas Anders and Dieter Bolen went their separate ways. Anders started a solo career in the US, but-- in spite 5 albums released--with out success. 
March of this year the impossible happened: Dieter Bolen and Thomas Anders reunited as Modern Talking, after only superficial contact for four years. Their first performance was in front of an 18 million TV audience on the game show "Wetten dass." Sales soared like in the mid 80s. The duo’s next single has been announced for July 6th, and the 8th album is scheduled for Fall.
One thing is certain: this chapter of German music history is continuing…   



