-----------------------------------------
http://www.peeps.com/christina/index.html

Biography from Site Above
-------------------------
Christina Aguilera's story is a Hollywood dream come
true. The daughter of a father in the military and a
violinist/pianist mother who toured Europe with the
Youth Symphony Orchestra, this18-year-old has traveled
the world, living for a time in Japan, Florida, Texas
and New Jersey, before settling in Wexford, PA, a
suburb of Pittsburgh. 

"I wanted to perform as long as I could remember" says
the blonde, blue eyed high school senior. Christina
first began performing in school talent shows. As an
eight-year-old she appeared on the nationally
syndicated "Star Search", at age ten she sang the
National Anthem for the Pittsburgh Steelers and
Penguins, and then, at age 12 landed a spot on the
"New Mickey Mouse Club" appearing on the Orlando-based
show along with several other future stars, including
Britney Spears, J.C. and Justin of 'N Sync and the
star of "Felicity", Keri Russell. 

After two years on the weekly Disney show, Christina
traveled overseas to further hone her musical skills.
She recorded a duet, "All I Wanna Do," with Japanese
pop star Keizo Nakanishi, appeared in the video and
toured in Japan. Later that year, the young show biz
veteran almost caused a riot at the Golden Stag
Festival in Transylvania, Romania when she waded into
the crowd of 10,000 while performing her two song set
on a bill which included Sheryl Crow and Diana Ross. 

On her return to the States in early 1998, Christina
was invited to audition to record, "Reflection," for
the Disney animated film "Mulan." The studio's search
for a powerful voice with a wide vocal range quickly
ended. They needed someone "who could hit a high "E"
above middle "C," according to Christina. At her
manager's request, Christina cut a one take demo on
her boombox in her living room singing to a karaoke
tape of Whitney Houston's "I Wanna Run To You". The
demo was FedExed to Disney -- they loved it -- and
within 48 hours, the young girl with the unique mature
voice was in a Los Angeles studio recording
"Reflection". That very same week RCA Records signed
her to a record contract. Mulan premiered in June,
1998 and "Reflection" turned into a Top 15 A/C single,
with Christina performing it live on "CBS This
Morning" and the "Donnie & Marie Show." "The song's
theme -- the struggle to establish your identity --
was something I could really relate to as a teenage
girl myself," says Christina. The song also related
well to critics, garnering a Golden Globe Nomination
for best original song in a motion picture. 

On her debut album for RCA, Christina continues to
define herself and showcase her special voice. From
the sparkling upbeat dance-pop of the first single,
"Genie In A Bottle," to the guitar driven, heartfelt
fun of "What A Girl Wants", to the soulful gospel
strains of "So Emotional" and the truly awe-inspiring
ballad, "I Turn To You", Christina's powerful
affecting voice intertwines the themes of finding your
own identity with the uncertainties of growing up. 

"I was thrilled to work with so many great producers
on this album" gushes Christina. Recent hitmakers Carl
Sturken & Evan Rogers ['N Sync, Boyzone, Brand New
Heavies] contribute a pair of tracks -- the pop-soul
"Love For All Seasons" and the rousing dance-floor
smash "Love Will Find A Way." "Genie In A Bottle" was
produced by ex-System member David Frank and Steve
Kipner. The uncomplicated, heartfelt "Blessed" was
penned and produced by Travon Potts [co-writer of
Monica's chart topping "Angel of Mine]. Christina is
specially proud of her ballads, including the Matthew
Wilder ["No Doubt"] produced "Reflection" and the
spine-tingling Diane Warren ballad "I Turn To You",
produced by Guy Roche [Brandy, Dru Hill, Aaliya, K-Ci
& Jo Jo]. Her soaring uptempos and thrilling ballads
serve as ample proof that Christina is not just a new
kid on the block, but a prime candidate for the Voice
of her generation. This debut album marks another huge
step for Christina down the road of commercial and
critical success. 

With numerous television appearances to her credit it
is not surprising that Christina has recently been
approached by a number of directors for roles in films
going into production this summer. But, this blond
beauty with dazzling blue eyes is going to wait a bit
before pursuing more time in front of the camera.
"Right now, I'm continuing to focus on my singing,"
says Christina, "I've been waiting for this moment my
whole life." 
