98 DEGREES

Jeff
----
Jeff Timmons is the founding member of 98°. While studying Psychology 
at Kent State, he decided to move to Los Angeles to pursue a career in 
entertainment. Although he received several acting jobs (including a 
commercial for the U.S. Navy!), his heart belonged to music and he 
formed a singing group. Time passed and several members came and went, 
but everything started to fall into place when a mutual friend 
introduced him to Nick. Shortly after, Justin and Drew joined the 
lineup and 98° was born.

Nick
----
Nick Lachey was on summer break from studying Sports Medicine at Miami 
University in Ohio when he got an invitation from a high school friend 
to join an up-and-coming vocal group in Los Angeles. Nick had always 
been torn between his loves of sports and music, but it appeared that 
music would win out this time. Shortly after joining Jeff in California
, Nick realized that his friend, Justin, and his brother, Drew, would 
fit perfectly in the group. A few phone calls, several plane flights, 
and thousands of driving miles later, the foursome was complete.

Drew
----
Drew Lachey was the final member to join 98°. After Nick and Justin 
hooked up with Jeff in L.A. and another member left the group, the 
guys asked Nick's brother, Drew, to complete the foursome. Even though 
he was working as an EMT almost 3000 miles away in New York City, Drew 
decided to go for it! Within two days, Nick was driving Drew to 
California, teaching him his parts from a tape recording the group had 
made. They arrived just in time to prepare for a performance at the 
House of Blues with Montell Jordan. Less than six months later, 98° 
signed with Motown Records.

Justin
------
Justin Jeffre grew up in Cincinnati, Ohio and - like Nick and Drew 
Lachey - attended the School for Creative and Performing Arts. In fact,
 Justin and Nick performed together in several groups during and after
 high school, including a barbershop quartet and an oldies cover band. 
While on break from studying History at the University of Cincinnati, 
Justin got a call from Nick about a vocal group in L.A. that Jeff 
Timmons had started. The combination of Nick and Jeff's tenors with 
Justin's rumbling bass was perfect - now all they needed was a 
baritone...

