AMBER
-----
Pre-Bio
-------
If you think, after listening to her 1996 debut album This Is Your 
Night, that you've got Netherlands native Amber pegged as just another 
manufactured dance-pop diva, you've got it all wrong. She'll be the 
first one to tell you; she's not exactly shy. Her singles "This Is 
Your Night," "Color Of Love," and "One More Night" from her debut 
album and the Gordon Lightfoot dance cover "If You Could Read My Mind"
 from the soundtrack of the disco-era film 54, all raced up the 
Billboard Dance Charts and all ended up in the Billboard Hot 100, 
putting Amber's name on the clubland and pop music map. However, she 
says "Sexual," the lead-off single from the new album, is different--
a more intimate and true expression of herself as an artist and a 
human being. Will the real Amber please stand up? Read on for her 
frank thoughts on the record industry, her career, and her new album.

Bio
---
It's official - Amber is a star and most of America
and the world are missing out. This songbird has had
hits with "One More Night," "Colour Of Love," "This Is
Your Night," and as a part of Star On 54's version of
"If You Could
Read My Mind." However, when people hear the name
Amber, they don't always connect the name with the
incredible voice and talent. It's time that changed.

With her latest album, simply titled Amber, Amber once
again proves herself with smartly written songs that
are packed with various uplifting, loving and sexually
charged emotions. Most of the songs on the album are
dance-based rhythm types songs that are far from being
the 'disposable' dance stereotype. Amber is more than
just a hired session singer with a producer - she
takes command both in her writing and singing, giving
the songs direction and
making them memorable like good songs should be. Just
take the first single from the album, "Sexual (Li Da
Di)." The song itself has been quite a long time. It
has hit #1 on the Billboard Club Singles Sales chart
and after much
pushing, it is finally cracking radio stations around
the United States. For a song to have such staying
power without getting burned out, it has to be great
and "Sexual (Li Da Di)" is a great, hook-filled song
that is representative of Amber.

Other stand out tracks include the opening track
"Above the Clouds," which will give the most depressed
person hope, "Love One Another," which will bring
everyone in the room together and "I'm Free," which
will give every
individual the confidence they are looking for to
live. If you've heard Amber's voice, be sure to get a
step closer with this album. If you've never
experienced Amber, it's time to open yourself to who
and what she is all about.
