Originally known simply as Blink, the band, consisting
of vocalist/bassist Mark Hoppus, guitarist/bassist Tom
Delonge and new drummer Travis Barker, is a product of
San Diego, California. Their debut EP FLY SWATTER was
self-released in 1993. In 1994, A full length album,
BUDDHA, followed. By 1995 the trio signed to the
Grilled Cheese/Cargo label and released the LP
CHESHIRE CAT. When the band was threatened with a
lawsuit by an Irish band with the same name that year,
they changed their name to Blink 182.

US tours with Southern California punk rawk stalwarts
like Pennywise, NOFX and The Offspring followed as the
band was heavily touted in the surf, skate and
snowboard scenes. Such exposure lead Blink 182 to
acclaimed performances on the 1996 and 1997 Vans
Warped Tours. In 1998, the group came to national
prominence with extensive alternative radio and MTV
airplay of their extremely catchy single "Dammit,"
while their Cargo/MCA album DUDE RANCH went on to
achieve a gold certification from the RIAA. A preview
of their new album promises fans more of Blink 182's
hook-laden, goofball punk. Expect ENEMA OF THE STATE
and the trio's supporting headline tour to be one of
the breakout successes of the summer.
*From Music.com

Full Name: Thomas DeLonge
Blink-182 Relation: Singer/Guitar Player
Born: December 13, 1975
Marital Status: Has a girlfriend
Favorite Band: Menudo
Favorite Movie: Foreskin Gump
Lives in Encinitas, CA
In his spare time, tom hangs out with his girlfriend.
Pet: german shepherd named Grey

Full Name: Markus Allen Hoppus
Blink-182 Relation: Singer/Bass Player
Born: March 15, 1972
Marital Status: "Open for business"
Favorite Band: Jimmy Eat World / Riverfenix
Favorite Movie: Caddyshack
Lives in Carmel Mountain Ranch, CA
In his spare time, Mark fishes and plays his Playstation and Nintendo 64.
Pet: a beagle named Ahi

Full Name: Travis Landon Barker
Blink-182 Relation: Drummer
Born: November 14, 1975
Marital Status: No girlfriend
Favorite Band: the police, old dirty bastard, descendents
Favorite Movie: True Romance
Lives in Riverside, CA, home of the Galleria at Tyler
Drives--66 Coupe de Ville Cadillac convertible
In his spare time, Travis runs Famous Stars and Straps, a belt and belt buckle company specializing in hot rod designs, for boys and girls. He also collects Cadillacs and old bicycles.
Pet: Tim, a member of the Inland Empire Underwear Police
