It occurs regularly that an Italian Dance hit conquers the world-wide 
Charts. Think about black box with " Ride on time ", Gala with " Freed 
From the Irish " or Whigfield with " Saturday Night ". Also the Song 
"Blue (Da Ba Dee) " of the group of EIFFEL 65 hit like a bomb. In the 
homeland of EIFFEL 65 the Song workstation unity of the Sales achieved 
-, club and Airplaycharts and created an Italian record: Every 150 
seconds ran " Blue " according to statistics over the ether and the CD 
with such resonance already problem-free platinum status naturally 
achieved. 

EIFFEL 65 consists of three musicians, which are involved in the 
Turiner club scene. All operate, and even produce even TRACKS, for the 
club label Blisscorporation. The 24-years old Maurizio Lobina and the 
26-years old Jeffrey Jey produced "Blue (Da Ba Dee) " together with the
boss of the Blisscorporation. With Live appearances they are supported
by the Top DJ Gabry Ponte. The name " EIFFEL 65 " the musicians owe to 
a computer program, which selects names according to the coincidence 
principle. Eiffel 65 and the Blisscorporation, that is a pool of 
creative and through-slammed people, which did not set the last 
milestone within the area of the international Dance and Popszene with 
" Blue (Da Ba Dee) surely. With security the friends of the Dance 
TRACKS will experience soon again their blue miracle. In this sense 
" Da Ba Dee "

How it is felt to us to being BLUE? " a text as Blue transmits to joy 
and semplicita but in truth is born from deeper thoughts. The text of 
Blue is based on the persons and as they are made. That is, everyone 
of we has of the ideas, opinions and a style of life that prefers. I 
identify this with a color, in the case of " Blue " the crowds are 
alive, a funny protagonist in a way that it wants to paint with the 
blue color. Blue like the sky, the sea, the Earth seen from the space 
and beautiful the Corvettes of years 70 (which the protagonist of the 
song says he has ;-))."

How is been born the name EIFFEL65? " To find a name of a group it is 
always a delicate process, in how much it would have to ago represent 
the artist or the music that. For which, contraverse to this rule, we 
have decided to create a program on the computer that created the 
names random, that is to case, in how much the case, second we, are a 
powerful creative instrument. And it is exited EIFFEL65. In practical, 
we have pulled dice, leaving that also God took the own 
responsibilities... Evidently it has carried fortune "

Brano BLUE has been composed from Maurizio Lobina, Gianfranco Randone 
and Massimo Gabutti, and is been born in the studies of young tag 
SKOOBY, sottoetichetta of the Bliss Corporation. The artistic 
production has been cured from producer Maurizio Lobina, remixed in 
two versions from the DJ Gabry Bridge, mixed from the Angelic 
acoustics Villella. The executive production is of Maximum Gabutti and 
Luciano Zucchet. Names that who is gotten passion of dance music easy 
will connect to other plans of the Bliss.Co. tag like DaBlitz and 
Bliss Team. After BLUE, EIFFEL 65 have remixed ALL I REALLY WANT of 
KIM LUCAS.

